Shri Venkateshwara University (SVU) Gajraula is an institution offering skilled education because skill enhancement fosters employment. Since its inception in 2010, SVU has earned many milestones by offering a futuristic education that not only educates but also trains for life.
Under the visionary leadership of our chairman Dr. Sudhir Giri, we commit SVU to offer affordable education & healthcare for all. Dr. Sudhir Giri himself, an engineer, knows the hardships rural youth face in gaining professional education. This prompted him to establish an institution where needy students gain an education at reasonable fees. Dr. Sudhir Giri's numerous honors highlight our dedication to education, making SVU the Best Private University in Uttar Pradesh, UP.
SVU has state-of-the-art labs & workshops that foster experiential learning because it is vital for skill growth. The computing labs are Intel-powered because we nurture efficient coders. The contribution of the service sector in India’s GDP (Gross Domestic Product) is 54 percent, which means there is huge potential in this sector. Indians want white-collar jobs, hence SVU has created hi-tech computing labs that’s why we are the Best Leading Private University in India.
SVU promotes collaborative research because it is crucial for growth. Hence, SVU has established centers of excellence that nurture research in critical areas. We have centers of excellence in:-
•	Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning.
•	Smart & sustainable infrastructure.
•	Basic & Applied Sciences.
•	Advanced Pharmacy
•	Advanced & Special Care Pharmacy.
•	Microelectronics & power systems.
•	Innovative education & pedagogy.
India is the knowledge economy of the world because we have the largest pool of STEM graduates who can give solutions to pressing issues. SVU undertakes research in key areas because we have the infrastructure for innovation, thus making it the Best Private University in Moradabad. Our IT engineers give solutions to complex problems because we train on the latest skills. SVU has dedicated workshops manned by trained staff that promotes experiential learning. We understand the importance of entrepreneurship because it fosters growth & employment. Hence, the Incubation and Entrepreneurship Cell promotes new ideas & nurtures them through support.
Under Atmanirbhar Bharat, the GOI is promoting self-reliance because it is crucial for survival & growth. The pandemic has entailed the need for innovation because every nation first protects its own population because of limited resources. Hence, SVU has a dedicated R&D cell that fosters research in critical areas because we want to make India self-reliant. We undertake collaborative research because we have the resources for R&D in key areas. The seminar halls are busy with expert talks that enlighten our students. The conference hall provides the ideal atmosphere for discussion.
We scientifically designed the classrooms because this promotes learning. SVU fosters internationalization by promoting exchange programs with foreign universities because innovation happens through collaboration. Students who wish to pursue international research can benefit from SVU’s international connection. We assist scholars in pursuing their semesters at foreign universities because this enhances their skill set. We have hired the faculty from IIT, NIT, & central universities because they can nurture technocrats through their vast knowledge & experience. The faculty encourages them to endure in labs because this promotes learning, thus making us the Top Private University in India. The majority of them are doctorates with industry experience because this fosters skills crucial for employment.
SVU arranges FDP so that they are abreast with the latest trends because up killing is crucial for survival. SVU is particular about hands-on skills, therefore we provide internships. Students gain practical skills by working with experienced professionals because observation fosters learning. We have partnered with leading companies because we profess experiential learning crucial for the job. The majority of the students get placed during internships because they hone their practical skills vital for placement. SVU’s curriculum is updated as per the industry needs because it is vital for employment. The course committee interacts with industry bodies & includes the skills that enhance the placement of the students. This way we teach what they require in the market, thus making us the Best Private University in India. An updated curriculum ensures placement because this makes our students job-ready.
The industries make a beeline for recruitment because we impart skilled education. The teaching method at SVU is student-centric because students learn by taking part in various activities. We adopt lecture mode to introduce the topic while students absorb concepts through role-plays, case studies, and projects that foster critical thinking & problem-solving. Through presentation & discussion, they clarify concepts & this fosters communication.
SVU promotes holistic development through curricular activities because it is vital for nurturing their personality. We organize cultural & sports programs that allow students to exhibit their hidden talents. The cultural committee encourages them to take part in dance & fashion shows because this mitigates inhibition & refines their personality. The Training & Placement cell proactively works for placement by visiting companies & highlighting the talent of our students. They train them on group discussion & mock interviews because this makes them confident, to make us the Top Private University in Uttar Pradesh UP.
